in the last few videos we talked about
how to do forward propagation and back
propagation in a neural network in order
to compute derivatives but back prop as
an algorithm has a lot of details and
you know can be a little bit tricky to
implement and one unfortunate property
is that there are many ways that have
subtle bugs in backdrop so that if you
run it with gradient descent or some
other optimization algorithm it could
actually look like this working and you
know your cost function J of theta may
end up decreasing on every iteration of
gradient descent but this could protrude
even though there might be some bug in
your implementation of back prop so that
looks like J of theta is decreasing but
you might just wind up with a neural
network that has a higher level of error
than you would with a bug-free
implementation and you might just not
know that there was this subtle bug
that's giving you worse performance so
what we do about this there's an idea
called gradient checking that eliminates
almost all of these problems so today
every time I implement a back
propagation or a similar gradient just
an algorithm on the neural network or
any other reasonably complex model I
always implement gradient checking and
if you do this and will help you make
sure and so if gain high confidence that
your implementation afford prop and back
prop or whatever is a hundred percent
correct and in what I've seen this
pretty much eliminates all the problems
associated with sort of a buggy
implementation as a background and in
the previous videos I have asked you to
take on faith that the formulas I gave
for computing the deltas and the DS and
so on I asked you to take on faith that
those actually do compute the gradients
of the cost function but once you
implement the American gradient checking
which is the topic of this video you'll
be able to sort of verify for yourself
that the code you're writing does indeed
it is indeed computing the derivative of
the cost function J so here's the idea
consider the following example suppose I
have a function J of theta and I have
some value theta and for this example
I'm going to assume that theta is just a
real number
and that's me I want to estimate the
derivative of this function at this
point and so the derivative is equal to
the slope of that sort of tangent line
here's how I'm going to numerically
approximate the derivative or rather
here's a procedure about numerically
approximating the derivative I'm going
to compute theta plus Epsilon so value a
little bit to the right and I'm going to
compute theta minus epsilon and I'm
going to look at those two points and
connected by a straight line
and I'm going to connect these two
points by a straight line and I'm going
to use the slope of that that little red
line as my approximation to the
derivative which is the true derivative
is the slope of that blue line over
there and so you know seems like it'd be
a pretty good approximation
mathematically the slope of this red
line is this vertical height divided by
this horizontal width so this point on
top is J of theta plus Epsilon
this point here is J of theta minus
Epsilon so there's vertical difference
is J of theta plus epsilon minus J of
theta minus epsilon and this horizontal
distance is just 2 Epsilon
so my approximation is going to be that
the derivative with respect to theta of
J of theta at this value of theta that
that's approximately J of theta plus
epsilon minus J of theta minus epsilon
over 2 Epsilon usually I'll use a pretty
small value for epsilon instead epsilon
to be maybe on the order of 10 to the
minus 4 there's usually a large range of
different values for epsilon that work
just fine and in fact if you let epsilon
become really small then mathematically
this term here actually mathematically
you know becomes the derivative becomes
exactly the slope of the function at
this point it's just that we don't want
to use epsilon that's too too small
because then you might run into
numerical problems so you know how do
you use epsilon around 10 to the minus
fourth day and by the way some of you
may have seen an alternative formula for
estimating the derivative which is this
formula
this one on the right is called a
one-sided difference whereas the phone
on the left that's called the two-sided
difference the two-sided difference
gives us a slightly more accurate
estimate so I usually use that rather
than this one-sided difference estimate
so concretely when you implement in
octave as you implement the following
the implement code to compute gradapprox
which is going to be our approximation
to the derivative that's just near this
formula J of theta plus epsilon minus GF
theta minus epsilon divided by two times
epsilon and this will give you a
numerical estimate of the gradient at
that point and in this example it seems
like it's a pretty good estimate
now on the previous slide we considered
the case of when theta was a real number
now let's look at a more general case of
when theta is a vector parameter so
let's say theta is an RN and it might be
an unreal Varon of the parameters about
your network so theta is a vector that
you know has n elements beta 1 up to
theta n we can then use a similar idea
to approximate all the partial
derivative terms concretely the partial
derivative of a cost function with
respect to the first parameter of theta
1 that can be obtained by taking J and
increasing theta 1 so you have J of
theta 1 plus epsilon and so on minus J
of the stay the 1 minus epsilon divided
by 2 epsilon the partial derivative
respect to the second parameter theta 2
this again this thing except that you
take j of kenya increasing theta 2 by
epsilon and here decreasing theta 2 by
epsilon and so on down to the derivative
respect to theta n would be if you
increase and decrease theta n by epsilon
over there so these equations give you a
way to numerically approximate the
partial derivative of J with respect to
any one of your parameters theta I
concretely what you implement is
therefore the following we implement the
following an octave to numerically
compute the derivatives we say for I
equals 1 through n where n is the
dimension of our parameter vector theta
and I usually do this with the unrolled
version of the parameters so you know
theta is just a long list of all of my
parameters in my neural network say I'm
gonna set theta plus equals theta then
increase theta plus the I've element by
epsilon and so you know this is
basically theta plus is equal to theta
except for theta plus I which is now
being fermented by epsilon so so if
theta plus is equal to write theta 1
theta 2 and so on and then theta I as
epsilon added to it and then I go down
to theta n so this is one theta plus is
and similarly these two these two lines
set theta minus 2 something similar
except that this instead of theta I plus
epsilon this now becomes theta I minus
epsilon and then finally you implement
this guy the prompts I and this would
give you your approximation to the
partial derivative respect to theta I of
J of theta and the way we use this in a
neural network implementation is we
would implement this implement this
volume to compute the partial derivative
of the cost function with respective
every parameter in the network and we
can then take the gradient that we got
from that problem so D Veck was the
derivatives we got from back problem
right so back prop back propagation was
a relatively efficient way to compute
the derivatives or the partial
derivatives of our cost function with
respect to all of our parameters and
what I usually do is then take my
numerically computed derivative that is
this rather problems that we've just had
from up here
and make sure that that is equal also
approximately equal up to you know small
values in numerical roundel that is
pretty close to the defect that I got
the back problem and if these two ways
of computing the derivative give me the
same answer or at least give me very
soon as you know it's up to a few
decimal places then I'm much more
confident that my implementation of back
prop is correct and when I plug these
defect vectors into gradient descents
for all some advanced optimization
algorithm again even then be much more
confident that I'm computing the
derivatives correctly and therefore that
hopefully you might call to run
correctly and do a good job optimizing J
of theta finally you want to put
everything together and tell you how to
implement this numerical gradient
checking here's what I usually do
first thing I do is implement back
propagation to compute the effects of
this a procedure we talked about in the
earlier video to compute D vac which may
be our unrolled version of these
matrices then what I do is implement a
numerical gradient checking to compute
gradapprox so this was what I described
earlier in this video and in the
previous slide then should make sure
that defect and granite products give
similar values you know let's say up to
a few decimal places and finally and
just important step before you start to
use your code for learning for seriously
training your network is important to
turn off gradient checking and to no
longer compute this dratted frosting
using the numerical derivative formulas
that we talked about earlier this video
and the reason for that is the numerical
gradient checking code the stuff we
talked about in this video that's a very
computationally expensive that's a very
slow way to try to approximate the
derivative whereas in contrast the back
propagation algorithm that we talked
about earlier that is the the thing we
talked about earlier for computing your
d1 d2 d3
for defect backprop is a much more
computationally efficient way of
computing the derivatives so once you've
verified that your implementation of
backpropagation is correct you should
turn off gradient checking and just stop
using that so just to reiterate should
be sure to disable your gradient
checking code before running your
algorithm for many iterations of
gradient descent or for many iterations
of the advanced optimization algorithms
in order to train your classifier
concretely if you were to run the
American gradient checking on every
single iteration of gradient descent or
if it were in the inner loop of your
cost function then your code would be
very slow because of the numerical
gradient checking code is much slower
than the back propagation algorithm then
the back propagation method where you
remember we were computing Delta 4 Delta
3 Delta 2 and so on that was the back
propagation algorithm that is a much
faster way to compute derivatives than
gradient checking so when you're when
you're ready once you verify the
implementation of backpropagation is
correct make sure you turn off or you
disable your gradient checking code
while you train your algorithm or else
and kokumo very slowly
so that's how you take gradients
numerically and that's how you can
verify that your implementation of
backpropagation is correct whenever I
influence back propagation or similar
gradient descent algorithm for a
complicated model I always use gradient
checking and this really helps me make
sure that my code is correct